---
title: Analytics
description:
---

## Purpose
The main purpose of these analytics components is to:
1. Enable data for personalized AI/ML models to enrich the user experiences.
2. Provide insights into content usage and support strategies for improving content roadmaps (often in conjunction with Google Analytics).

## Analytics Clients
- **Browser**

  *See More*: [](https://github.com/sowers-io/bosca/tree/main/workspace/web/analytics/src)

## Analytics Frontend
The Analytics Frontend is responsible for handling first-party data events. It also provides features such as:
- **Event Enrichment**: [Initial implementation](https://github.com/sowers-io/bosca/blob/main/workspace/core/analytics/src/transforms/cloudflare_geo.rs) supports geo enrichment via Cloudflare headers.
- **Event Triggers**: Planned future functionality to enable personalized notifications and more.

## Analytics Backend
The Analytics Backend processes enriched events from the Frontend. Key responsibilities include:
- **Data Handling**: Buffers events to disk and generates Parquet files (initial implementation), storing them in object storage. Future plans include forwarding data to other stores like ClickHouse.
- **Storage and Analysis**: Supports reasonable long-term event storage and analysis using DuckDB.

## Dashboards
Initially, we're providing up-to-date visualizations of events through [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) dashboards
(work-in-progress, to be released later or if you request them directly).

### Additional Information
Both the Frontend & Backend are a single binary.  When deployed, you can choose to either have a single instance
or deploy such that they have specific purposes (enrichment, triggers vs storage).<br />
*Code*: https://github.com/sowers-io/bosca/tree/main/workspace/core/analytics <br />
