---
title: Architecture
description: Bosca is built using a small, carefully designed set of components.
---

Bosca is built using a small, carefully designed set of components. By minimizing the number of components, we reduce
complexity and mitigate potential issues that often arise in larger systems. To streamline operations and enhance reliability,
many of Bosca's core functions are consolidated into a single server binary, though modularity and scalability are
pragmatically considered where necessary.

### Component Organization

Bosca's components are grouped into key functional areas to maintain clarity and ensure effective modularization:

- **Object Storage**
- **Structured Storage**
- **Search**
- **Caching**
- **Workflows**
- **AI/ML**
- **Analytics**
- **General Operations**

These functional areas allow us to design and organize the system in a way that is both efficient and scalable. In the
following sections, we will explore these components in greater depth and explain how they work together.

## Ingress

{id="ingress-component-type"}
**Component Type**: General Operations, [See More](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/)

Bosca is agnostic about the ingress method you choose for deployment.  But, we do recommend nginx as a starting point.

- [**Kubernetes Deployment**](Deployment.md#kubernetes-preferred): We leverage nginx ingress because we have
  experienced it running at scale and find it suitable.
- [**Docker Compose Deployments**](Deployment.md#docker-compose): In this setup, all services are routed through
  **nginx**, enabling it to handle SSL termination and load balancing effectively.
- [**Serverless Deployments**](Deployment.md#serverless-early-stage): If you're deploying Bosca in a serverless
  environment, you can typically ignore the ingress component because the service provider will manage this for you.

## Analytics

{id="bosca-analytics-component-type"}
**Component Type**: Analytics, AI/ML, Workflows<br />
**Language**: Rust, [See More](Analytics.md)

The Bosca Analytics Server is a very low overhead way in which to capture first party analytics (meaning, you are
collecting the data and not someone like Google).  You might be wondering why not just use Google Analytics?  Well,
you can and probably should.  This is an optional component.  However, it's one that we recommend.  The primary
reason is as it matures, its ability to invoke workflows within the Bosca system will provide you with very interesting
and unique ways to offer personalized experiences to your users through training ML models and other triggers.

We've also found that at scale, it's extremely important to be able to verify third party analytics systems... because
sometimes they have issues that can leave you in the dark.  And, for clarity, this statement isn't to say those
systems are bad.  We actually recommend you use both a third party data collection system and a first party data
collection system.

This control allows for validation, advanced system capabilities, and a safety net in case additional privacy laws
cause unexpected changes in how you leverage third party systems through systems like the App Store or Play Store.

The current status of this component is immature, but there are lots of plans for it, with some of them coming in
the next month or so.  Some of the first use cases will be around sending transational emails when a user hasn't
interacted with an element for a period of time.

{id="bosca-analytics-licensing"}
**Licensing**: Apache 2.0, [See More](https://github.com/sowers-io/bosca?tab=Apache-2.0-1-ov-file)<br />
*If you don't want to use Bosca's analytics system, you can bypass this component.*

## Bosca Server
{id="bosca-server-component-type"}
**Component Type**: General Operations<br />
**Language**: Rust

The Bosca Server serves as the backbone of the Bosca platform, offering GraphQL interfaces to manage and interact with
your content. It handles critical functions, including [workflow, scheduling, and state](Workflows.md),
[authentication](Security.md), [permissions](Security.md), [profiles](Profiles.md), [collections](Collections.md),
[metadata](Metadata.md), [supplementary content](Supplementary.md), [documents](Documents.md),
[guides](Guides.md), and more.

{id="bosca-server-licensing"}
**Licensing**: Apache 2.0, [See More](https://github.com/sowers-io/bosca?tab=Apache-2.0-1-ov-file)

## Bosca Workflow Server (Optional)

{id="bosca-workflow-server-component-type"}
**Component Type**: Workflows

This is the same as Bosca Server but is dedicated to the workflow runners.  This approach allows segmenting workflow
operations to be internally facing infrastructure, such that it doesn't affect user facing infrastructure.

## Bosca Workflow Runners (Optional)
{id="bosca-workflow-component-type"}
**Component Type**: General Operations, AI/ML<br />
**Language**: Kotlin, C#, Python, Rust (or whatever language you want), [See More](Workflows.md)

Bosca Runners are standalone programs that actively monitor the Workflow Queue within Bosca Server to process various
activities. These activities can range from transitioning metadata or collections between states (e.g., draft to published) to
more complex workflows like transcribing videos, extracting highlights using LLMs, and creating content snippets.

Workflow runners are language-agnostic, allowing you to build them in any preferred language. They operate as external
processes, communicating with Bosca Server via GraphQL to receive activity jobs and report statuses.

*NOTE*: We're thinking through ways to allow for the runners to run in a serverless environment.  But, this isn't
currently a priority.

{id="bosca-workflow-licensing"}
**Licensing**: TBD, though what will most likely happen is there will be core runners (we will be releasing them
soon) that are licensed under Apache 2.0, and then there will be enterprise workflows that are available, possibly
under a [Functional Source License](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/blob/master/LICENSE.md) or some other
enterprise license.<br /><br />
*If you don't want to use Bosca's workflow system, you can bypass this component.

## PostgreSQL
{id="postgresql-component-type"}
**Component Type**: General Operations, Structured Storage, [See More](https://www.postgresql.org/)

We leverage PostgreSQL for many aspects of the Bosca System.  Ranging from structured storage, to its JSONB storage.
Most major cloud providers provide managed PostgreSQL services.  Allowing for low overhead backups and scaling
(through things like read-replicas).  There are also several PostgreSQL compliant databases that allow for other scaling
approaches like CockroachDB and YugabyteDB.  There are even serverless PostgreSQL offerings from companies like Neon.

{id="postgresql-licensing"}
**Licensing**: PostgreSQL License, [See More](https://www.postgresql.org/about/licence/)

## Meilisearch
{id="meilisearch-component-type"}
**Component Type**: General Operations, Search, [See More](https://www.meilisearch.com/)

Meilisearch is our preferred search index.  Thanks to its foundations in Rust, it has a very reasonable memory footprint
and is very fast.  It also has many advanced features.  While there are certain trade-offs in functionality that
they have chosen to make to achieve some of the capabilities they have, we have found them to be acceptable in most
cases.  With their vector store, things like semantic search are extremely easy to integrate and manage.

While they don't have native clustering, there easy ways to achieve eventually consistent read replicas through
Bosca Workflows.  That combined with kubernetes load balancing, we think this is a great way to efficiently scale
search.

{id="meilisearch-licensing"}
**Licensing**: MIT, [See More](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch?tab=MIT-1-ov-file#readme)

## Redis (Dragonfly)

{id="dragonfly-component-type"}
**Component Type**: General Operations, Caching, [See More](https://www.dragonflydb.io/)

We use a Redis compliant server (though you can choose any Redis compliant server), called Dragonfly.  While it is
licensed under the BSL, presently, we find their additional use grant to be acceptable.  If anything changes, we can
easily switch this out.

We chose Dragonfly because it has a Kubernetes operator that makes it extremely easy to spin up a primary and failover
node.  In addition, its performance is on par with our expectations thanks to it being multithreaded.

We're primarily using this component for Caching, Workflow Job Queues, and PubSub.  Most cloud providers provide managed
Redis services that can satisfy all the use cases.  And, optionally, if it became a priority we could support
MemCache for caching instead (but, this isn't currently a priority).  Our current caching mechanics are very immature,
this is a high priority for us, and will likely be improved in the coming weeks.

{id="dragonfly-licensing"}
**Licensing**: BSL, [See More](https://github.com/dragonflydb/dragonfly?tab=License-1-ov-file#readme)

## Object Storage (S3 or Cloud Storage)

{id="object-storage-component-type"}
**Component Type**: General Operations, Object Storage

...

## Qdrant

{id="qdrant-component-type"}
**Component Type**: AI/ML, Search, [See More](https://qdrant.tech/)

Qdrant is a robust vector storage and search system that we utilize to enable several key functionalities within the Bosca platform. It plays a pivotal role in delivering:
- **Basic Recommendations**: Enhancing user experiences through personalized content suggestions.
- **Context During RAG Operations**: Providing contextual relevance to improve results.

While Qdrant offers excellent vector search capabilities, it is optional. Meilisearch can act as an alternative for certain vector storage tasks. However, Qdrant stands out when vector search is critical for your application, reducing the load on other systems while ensuring high-performance operations.

{id="qdrant-licensing"}
**Licensing**: Apache 2.0, [See More](https://github.com/qdrant/qdrant?tab=Apache-2.0-1-ov-file)

## Image Processor

{id="image-processor-component-type"}
**Component Type**: General Operations<br />
{id="image-processor-language"}
**Language**: TypeScript

<p>

</p>

Publishing images often requires creating multiple size and format variants. The image processor handles tasks such as
resizing, format conversion, optimization, and more. While primarily designed to work within workflows for pre-caching
image variants, it can also be safely exposed as a public-facing service.

However, image manipulation can be resource-intensive. If you choose to utilize this component in a public-facing capacity,
ensure adequate memory, compute resources, and proper edge caching to optimize performance.

{id="image-processor-license"}
**Licensing**: Apache 2.0, [See More](https://github.com/sowers-io/bosca?tab=Apache-2.0-1-ov-file)


## Open Telemetry

While immature in Bosca, we are levering OTEL as a telemetry system.  As such, we can forward events to many of the
most popular telemetry services.
